What is S3?
S3 stands for simple storage service.
It's one of the first services AWS created.
In S3, you create buckets,
and in those buckets,
you can store objects.
An object is for most practical purposes, a file.
How much data can you store?
There is no limit to the number of objects you can store in a bucket.
People store exabytes of data in S3.
S3 is designed to store any amount of data,
which is a pretty bold statement.
S3 like most AWS services,
is pay-as-you-go, which means they only pay for what you store in S3.
Cost vary on the exact type of S3 storage you use,
we'll dig in more shortly,
but overall, the most you pay for S3 is under three cents per gigabyte per month.
As you'll see, you can spend even less than that.
S3 is highly durable.
Durability is different than availability.
Durability refers to the likelihood that you will lose something stored in S3.
The answer is not very likely.
Per AWS, S3 is designed to provide 11 nines of durability of objects over a given year.
This durability level corresponds to an average expected loss of
0.000000001 percent of objects.
For example, if you store 10 million objects in Amazon S3,
you can on average expect to incur a loss of a single object once every 10,000 years.
Not too bad. S3 allows you to replicate your buckets or just part of the bucket.
This is useful for redundancy,
but also for applications that have use cases where
some parts of your application would like to modify objects in different ways.
You can replicate a bucket within the same region in cases where you want to keep
a clean copy of your uploaded files yet still have a workspace for making changes,
or you can create a cross-region bucket replica.
A cross-region replica is perfect for multi-region recovery of data.